The greatest honor anyone can have is to be called a servant of the most
high God, Jehovah. And as you've seen from your deep study of God's word,
servants of Jehovah also have distinct personality traits and qualities
that are called to mind when their names are mentioned. For example, what
qualities or traits do you think of when we mention the following names? Ruth,
Gideon, David, Martha. Yes, the name of a servant of Jehovah can call to mind
certain qualities, certain traits that are worthy of imitation. So what will
you be called? As you begin your new assignment, what quality or trait would
you like your fellow workers to think about when your name is mentioned? The Bible
book of Proverbs provides a very reachable goal in this regard. Please open to
Proverbs chapter 16 and we'll read together verse 21. That's Proverbs
chapter 16 verse 21. The wise in heart will be called understanding. What a
worthy goal that is to be called a person of understanding. Now from your studies,
you know, understanding it's the ability to put the facts together, grasp the
full complete picture of a matter. So how is understanding demonstrated? Is it
revealed in a test score or is it revealed by being the first to provide a
solution in a group setting or perhaps at a meeting? Well, let's keep reading
verse 21 and the one kind in speech adds persuasiveness. There's how
understanding is demonstrated in kind speech or as the footnote indicates
appealing speech, sweetness of lips. So a person who's called understanding puts
the facts together, grasps the full picture in order to find good in a matter.
And that is reflected through kind, positive, persuasive speech. Now this is
more than just being optimistic or the power of positive thinking. Understanding
has a source. Please turn to Proverbs this time chapter 9 and we'll read
verse 10 as Proverbs chapter 9 verse 10. The fear of Jehovah is the beginning of
wisdom and knowledge of the most holy one is understanding. There is the source
the most holy one, Jehovah God. He's both the source of understanding and
he's the supreme example in how to use it. I just think for a moment of what
happened after the tragic painful rebellion in the Garden of Eden. What did
Jehovah do? Immediately, he put the facts together, he saw the complete picture,
and then he uttered the Edenic promise, a positive promise that gives us hope even
right after that painful tragedy. And hundreds of years later with the nation of
Israel, they would repeatedly abandon Jehovah. What would he do? He would hear
their groanings, he would hear their cries, he would see their changed attitude,
and he would raise up judges to save them time after time. Yes, Jehovah God
shows us what real understanding is. And because we trust in him, we too can find
the good, speak and act kindly and positively. And how refreshing it is to see
this in your class, your kind positive speech and actions with one another and
with those that you come in contact with has been very refreshing to see. It's a
result of your deep trust in God's word and your deep trust in Jehovah himself. And
your studies have just further enhanced that over these past few months. In contrast,
much of the world's education fosters critical thinking. And note what the
watchtower says about this. We quote, do not be fooled by the mistaken notion that a
cynical, critical, pessimistic attitude is the same as intelligence. Actually,
negative thinking demands little of the intellect. So what a privilege to know as
you dear students do, what real understanding is, it's not just the ability to
identify what's wrong with a situation. It's the ability to identify how good can
address it. And this will encourage your brothers and sisters. One Bethel
family member observed understanding in the assistant overseer of a department. On
one occasion, the department overseer scheduled a meeting with several brothers
from other departments, but he forgot to inform his assistant. Then on the day of
the meeting, the overseer was away. So several brothers arrived for a meeting that
the assistant knew nothing about. What would he do? It was observed. He said a
brief silent prayer came out. Welcome to group. Address the points for discussion.
And at the end said, thank you, brothers, for coming to this meeting and allowing me
to fill in for the overseer. And I'll update him when he returns. He just covered
for him. Beautiful example. He knew this man had shouldered responsibility for
decades. This was not his pattern. So he just applied good. He showed understanding.
Now, realistically, there will be days when it will be hard to be known as a person
of understanding. What if, though, there's a prolonged period of time where we're finding
it difficult to find the good, to speak and act kindly and positively. Maybe our mate
or a trusted friend even speaks with us and says, your kind, positive speech and actions
are changing. What can we do? Well, each person and their relationship with Jehovah is unique.
But let's consider the example of the writer of Psalm 73 and learn a valuable principle.
The writer of this inspired Psalm was struggling with even whether or not to serve Jehovah. Note
the turmoil he's in at Psalm 73 verse 14. And I was troubled all day long. Every morning
I was chastised. Now, it can be difficult to be known as a person of understanding when
we're in this frame of mind. In fact, in verse 22, the Psalmist honestly admits I was
unreasoning and lacked understanding. So what would he do? Could he ever be called
understanding again? Notice verse 15. But if I had said these things, I would have betrayed
your people. So first, the Psalmist held back from making his perplexing thoughts public.
He knew that that kind of negative speech would affect God's people. He likened it to
a betrayal as if he were releasing the names of his fellow worshippers to the enemy. That's
what he likened negative speech to. Instead, he kept to his spiritual routine and waited.
And then a powerful moment took place in verse 26. My body and my heart may fail. But
God is the rock of my heart and my portion forever. There it is. Understanding the Psalmist
knew he was not alone. Jehovah God, the immovable rock was keeping him stable in the midst of
this violent wind storm that he found himself in. That powerful realization plugged him back
in to the source of understanding. And he was once again able to put the facts together,
find good in a matter and speak and act kindly and positively. What's the lesson? When we are
in turmoil and feel lacking in understanding, we are in good company. Many faithful servants of
Jehovah have felt this way. When we do, like the Psalmist, we hold back from negative speech,
which can affect those around us. Instead, we speak privately with a trusted friend.
We keep to our spiritual routine and we wait. We wait for our powerful moment. The realization
that Jehovah God is the rock of our heart. And one final point, demonstrating understanding includes
demonstrating it with ourself. You will make mistakes. And when you do, your trust in Jehovah will
allow you to find the good in yourself. As Brother Sanderson mentioned in the opening comments.
And that will help you to keep a positive frame of mind.
Well, we know Jehovah God is going to be with you in your assignments. May your trust in him,
the source of understanding continue to deepen. This will allow you to address situations by
putting the facts together, finding good in a matter and speaking and acting kindly,
positively, persuasively. When you do this, you'll be showing that you are wise in heart and
you will be called understanding.